I just know a lot of hours a day. So after a lot of
discussion, they did give me a few hours of credit
for some of my military experience, like in the
basic requirements, there was some military
requirements that they'd give me credit for had I
gone into ROTC, so nationally qualified. So they
did give me a few hours, but still, it was
impossible for me to get, they said, a necessary
number of hours for a degree in electrical
engineering. talked in terms of, well, why can't
it take more of these courses? And he said, well,
you're talking in terms of 28 hours. Well, I think I
can do this. I've got nothing else to do. And I
finally prevailed upon him to let me try it. And we
said, well, OK, we'll try this. And I started out.
And it was, I assure you, a laborious undertaking.
extremely hard at first. Three or four o'clock in
the morning, I was still busy. And they gave me a
little bit of freedom to go in and register early in
order to get the classes before they filled up at
the property, to be sure I'd take advantage of the
hours at a certain time of the day for a particular
class that I needed to have. So they were very, very
cooperative and helpful, very understanding,
and I started out. And that's the way I went for the
first year, straight through, all the year, for 12
months, summer and all. And so at the end of 12
months, how many credits did you get? Well, I had
the equivalent of two years of credits towards an
electrical engineering degree. At the end of 12
months, you had two years. At the end of 12 months.
And I think I'd made, well, a practice grade A. I
think I'd made one B, or one B, grade A courses. So
they were... Now, all of the people that knew me,
and professors, and the heads of the various
schools knew me. They were ecstatic. And they
showed me this congratulating, encouraged me.
But the head of the School of Electrical
Engineering, I forget his name right now. It's
been so long ago. What, 40 years? Well, almost 40
years ago.
He said, there's no way that we could continue,
particularly since you start getting into lab
courses, direct current and electrical power,
since A&M stressed that. And there's just no way
I'd get enough hours and couldn't possibly get a
degree in two years. So to make a long story short, I
collaborated with more of the officials in school
and then also my headquarters back at Terry
University. And upon a suggestion of them and
giving me complete freedom, I sat down with the
officials of A&M and ended up taking orienting my
work toward a degree. And at that time, it was
called management engineering, I think now
called investment engineering. And I'm
delighted I did, because it gave me the
opportunity to get my degree in the time allotted.
Plus, since I'd done so well, they knew I was
motivated back home in their university. They
granted me another four years, one more semester.
Four months. Four months, one more semester to get
my degree. I started in again, and the same number
of hours, and at the end of two years and four
months, I had gotten my degree in management
engineering and graduated with honors. I was a
member of the Tau Beta Pi and National Honor
Society, and I didn't participate in any other
activities. I'd have loved to have participated
in football, but of course I couldn't. the work. I
was dedicated to it and I was doing well and I was
achieving my objective. It was extremely hard on
my wife, my two little girls, extremely hard. But
we got through it and of course the officials back
there at the university were elated and I got high
marks for my achievement in getting a degree.
And I must admit that I was very, very proud that I
didn't pick A&M. I'm still proud of it. That's
where I wanted to go when I was a kid, and then I
finally achieved that objective, and I have the
Air Force to thank for that. When you were younger,
you had an idea of what it would be like. You had a
perception of A&M, and then you didn't get to go to
college for a decade after, or 15 years later. In
what ways was your earlier perception of A&M
correct, and in which way was it incorrect? Well,
that's a good question. I can say I was about 32 when
I started in 47. And
here I was a full colonel, dedicated in having a
full military career to go back to immediately
when I was leaving college. It's sort of like
somebody in a corporation of business being given
two years to go get a degree then come back to a job in
a corporation. I knew I had a job. There was no
reason for me not to concentrate strictly on
studying. That was my objective.
Extracurricular activities was out of the
question. I didn't have any desire to do that. But
here I was cast in that type of environment and
considerably older than You know, the other
students in their late teens and a few maybe in
their early 20s. A few graduate types that I
mingled with, but nobody, hardly anybody at my age
level except a couple, two or three colonels,
lieutenant colonels about my age in the same
program from the United States Army and the United
States Air Force. I mixed easily. with the
professors in the classes. They became very
helpful and knew what I was doing, and we had a very
high mutual respect for each other. The
professors never singled me out one way or the
other to either discriminate or to give
preference. I guess I was another student. The
students, by far the majority of the students,
respected me and realized what I was doing. As
usual in a group of people that big, you always have
some eight balls as far as I'm concerned. I can
recall two or three that taunted me. Really?
Taunted me considerably. Gee, I wish I had your set
up, a full colonel doing a full colonel's pay and
going to school. Actually, you don't even have to
study. Two or three of the types of this nature,
obviously you can imagine what type of people they
were. I doubt they even finished their studying.
And this bothered me for a while. These were kids in
the Corps? No, not in the Corps. They were not
members of the ROTC. They were veterans? No, none
of them were veterans. They were just young kids.
Did you wear your uniform to class? No, I never wore
my uniform. I, on weekends, I still had to give a
flying time and maintain my flying pay and my
capability to fly. Weekend, all the pilots of the
group would be about three or four of us. Some of
them were not pilots. But we who were pilots would
get in a car and drive over to Burge to Murfreespace
in Austin, Texas, and fly our aircraft for, ready
to fly at least four hours a month. Generally what
we would do, be three or four of us come over and get
in a transport aircraft on a Saturday afternoon
and just get in the airplane and schedule hops that
would take us all night long and up to about noon on
Sunday, flying time, where we'd change its
controls of the aircraft so that by the time all of
us got back, all of us would have at least four hours
in the airplane. So it had to require at least eight
to 12 hours flying time. That's the way we'd do
that. How many hours a month did you have to have?
Four hours. Basically four hours. And this was
still required while we were going to college.
Why didn't you wear your uniform? They preferred
we do not. Oh, the Air Force? It was not a
regulation. Well, almost a regulation, yes. It
was one of our guidelines. Go in civilian clothes
mixed with the student body and don't be obvious.
In other words, there was expected to be some
criticism. Maybe the Air Force would spend money
sending the guys to school and they would be out
training in the military. I think this was the
basis of some of the toning that I got from one or two
of the kids. How did you get along with the kids in
the Corps? Excellent. As a matter of fact, it so
happened that my brother, my youngest brother,
actually I paid his way through A&M at the time. He
was in the cadet corps, and after, you know, even
that first year, word got around who I was, his
brother and so forth, and I got along fine. Matter
of fact, we had, you know, the air PMS&T, and many
times we got together and we had dinner together
and I associated with them, you know, military,
professional military service. Sometimes I even
went over and gave maybe a lecture. to some of the
students at RMTC.
The one thing I observed that was very, in effect,
was educational to me, really in a philosophical
way, was, you know, at this time there were many
veterans going to colleges, and A&M with the
freedom they had, not only in education, but in
Very informal dress and all. Veteran not having to
take ROTC, of course, and many of them, and I mean
hundreds of thousands of them at this time in the
program. Some married with a baby, living in
trailers, actually provided trailer space on the
campus back by the Kyle Field for them to live in.
These guys knew what they were going to school for.
They were, many of them were matured by, you know,
combat. Their attitude was remarkably different
in college towards their education. And, well not
surprisingly, might be as you'd expect it, they
were A students. And it led me to believe that, do
some soul searching about our American system of
education, particularly time wise and the life of
a young man. And quite often I thought, goodness,
as long as we have the draft, why not think in terms
of trying to induce a young man to put a year or two of
service in right after high school, and take
advantage of the maturing and ripening process in
military service amongst men, and then at one
moment release him from the service. let him go to
college, and perhaps even help him pay part of his
college. I still think this is what he looked at.
Because so many students, and backed up by many
discussions I had with the professors along these
lines, just the average high school graduate that
came to college just didn't know what he wanted to
do. in a lot of areas just wasn't educated well
enough either to start taking up a college, like
college algebra. He couldn't take college
algebra. As a matter of fact, A&M did have
refresher courses in algebra. So it was a, I
learned a lot in the field of education, if you
will. What about your professors? Were there any
that you thought, well, they were special in any
way to you, that helped you in any way? Do you
remember any of them? Oh yeah, I remember a fact
that I can close my eyes and see many of them right
now. Names-wise, I can't remember all the names. I
remember Dr. Perry, the head of the School of
Management Engineering, who was a very fine man
and who did everything he could to anything I
wanted to do within reason, he would readily
approve of. He was instrumental in granting me the
authority to take so many hours. The young fellow
who was head of mechanical drawing in the freshman
course, a real young fellow, he had had some
military service. He was very helpful in
understanding.
All of them, without exception, were readily
available to me to talk to about any particular
time, particularly making adjustments or a
32-year-old man coming back to college, you know,
and practically every one of them. Well, I'd say
50% of them, maybe 70% of them, were younger than I.
My physics professor was a, I guess what you call
him, a paraplegic, not a paraplegic, he was a...
relatively young man, and extremely brilliant in
physics. And remember, we busted the atom bomb.
But it had impact on the teaching of physics. Some
of the books had to be. And they were just
introducing an atomic physics course at A&M about
the time I started school. And he was a very
understanding type of person. But he was one of
these spastic types that was physically very at a
terrible disadvantage, particularly writing on
a wall, on a slate and chalk.
And I remember him because I felt sorry for him. He
had such a disadvantage, but yet here he was
teaching students, and that gentleman finally
committed suicide.
One of my statistical
data statistics course in management
engineering. That gentleman may still be at A&M. I
don't know. I can't remember his name. He was very
helpful, a relatively young guy. And he took
special time out to help me on a new type of
mathematics I'd never been concerned with,
permutations and probabilities. What do you
think of the training? I mean, the academic
training that you received at A&M, do you think it
was adequate? Was it good, mediocre, average?
What do you think? When you say academic training,
you mean actually the instructing I got? No, the
quality of the instruction. Outstanding.
Outstanding. Outstanding. And I can't think of a
single- Did it prepare you for a career if you
wanted to go into engineering management, if you
want industrial engineering? I'm glad you asked
that question. All the professors, and to a
certain extent I remember students even being
interested in my question, because I'd ask a
question pertaining to how I visualize it in the
future and applying it maybe to, let's say,
strictly the military, like a course in handling
people. Industrial relations, you know, maybe
I'd ask a question about the officers versus the
airmen rather than management versus labor. The
professors were actually delighted with the
question because it was a strange question to
them. But it was outstanding.
Now, I was wondering about some of the so-called
traditions that we have at A&M and what your
opinion was of them. One is hazing. Of course, you
weren't.
in an official manner, but you must have seen some
of the hazing and some of the spanking and things
like that. What was your opinion of this? Well,
remember I'd been through the Flying Cadets.
Sure. And they had a very, very similar type of
hazing program in the Flying Cadets. In some ways,
a little bit more drastic than what I observed
during the time I was at A&M. I didn't mind that. I
wasn't against it, and I don't know, I accepted it
as part of the tradition of Texas A&M and as a method
of seeing if the young guy, when he came to A&M, if he
could take it. And I wasn't against it. If it's
overdone, where maybe a man was physically, if you
will, torture a little bit.
I also wanted to ask you now, during your years in
the service, you must have met a number of West
Point graduates, a number of Aggie officers, and
of course, a number of Air Force Academy officers.
And I'd like you to compare the quality of a second
lieutenant from each one of these institutions.
Compare them with each other. I've thought about
that a lot, and actually, when I came across
various graduates, I thought of the first
question a lot. I can truthfully say I didn't see
any difference. You couldn't really tell. Even on
the second lieutenant? No.
Even allowing for my bias towards A&M because I was
making graduates, I still would say It was equal.
You put them up one against the other, and there was
really no difference.
The training at A&M, in my opinion, not having gone
through Westmont, Indianapolis, or the Air Force
Academy, I can't say positively, but I got the
impression after talking to a lot of those boys,
that it was very much the same attitude to the kids
when they were going through the school. It was
very much the same. But the product that they
produced,
it was about the same. But there's no doubt in my
mind that the officer that came out of Texas A&M
was a very fine officer in the services. I don't
think I've ever come across an Aggie officer in the
military that I found I had trouble with. I can
truthfully say that. I can't say that. about West
Horners and getting Navy to change officers. I
have come across a few of them. And of course,
probably over the long haul, I've met more of them.
But of course, I can't ever think of an Aggie that
I've come across. Did you favor Aggies? Were you
biased toward Aggies after you went to A&M? I mean,
did you try to promote them faster because they
were Aggies? No, sirree. Any way that you acted any
different to Aggies? No. I very carefully watched
myself on OERs when I was grading an Aggie. If
anything, I probably know the other way. I didn't.
I never wanted to be biased toward an Aggie on his
OER with respect to his career. I'm not that type of
an officer.
Now, I've often heard that A&M is more than just an
institution of higher learning, but it's
something special. Would you agree with that?
I guess I have to answer that yes, and then go back
and say that that's the reason I think always, even
when I was a young fella and first learned even what
a college or university was, I've always wanted to
go to A&M. And I guess it's just that there was
something about spirit There was an Aggie or an A&M
spirit that I learned, first heard about and
learned more and more about and became exposed to
it with Aggie officers, you know, even before I
went to Texas A&M in a service and talking to them.
And I just thought there was something special
about spirit that they had. And I swear, I just
don't think It's hard to put your finger on it, but I
don't think they have this open spirit at the
academies. I can't define it. I think it may be that
I'm trying to say it's
a more enforced, therefore I must do it type of a
spirit at the academies, whereas at A&M it's just
sort of a self-instilled,
Traditional, if you will. Tradition going out of
what I don't know, but to me it's traditional. It's
just a spirit. And you hear all over the United
States today the Aggie spirit. I don't know. It's
just great, and I think it still exists. What were
your feelings when you left A&M?
Well, I tell you, I was tired. I bet you were tired.
And I was... I had been out of my military
environment, my professional military
environment, for over two years. So really, I was
glad to be leaving A&M and go back to an assignment.
But I had nothing more but gratitude and thanks for
everybody at the institution because
I had gotten my degree, achieved my objective, I
was proud. Also, I was particularly happy for my
wife and family because I get to see them more and be
part of the family again because I've been
studying hard. Oh, yeah. Well, you were in, it
looks like, a temporary assignment from July 1949
to October 1949 at Mitchell Air Force Base in New
York. Was that a temporary assignment? Well, no,
it was a... It was an assignment oriented to air
defense. At that time, the Air Force was trying to
set up a separate command structure within the Air
Force itself for the specific function of the air
defense role of the United States. And they set up
an organization called Continental Air Defense
Command at Mitchell Air Force Base. You remember
me telling you about Bruce Holloway, who was a
major over in China. He asked for me and I wanted to
go and he had followed my career at A&M and knew what
I'd done. So I ended up going up there and I worked
for him in planning. Okay. And at that time I
started It was rather a... Until 1951 then. Right.
And then it was time to go to an air work college.
Okay, but I want to know about this. There's a
couple of questions I want to know about the
Continental Air Defense Command. With this, of
course, we were working directly with the
Canadians, right? Yes, at that time we started the
planning and... with ultimately NORAD, North
American Air Defense Command, in mind. And that's
where the seeds of organization were born right
there. As a matter of fact, working for General
Holloway and General Thatcher and Colonel George
Brown, who incidentally eventually became the
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. A very, very
fine person. Brilliant man. He was assistant D.O.
under General Thatcher. Bruce Holloway had
plans, and I was his assistant in plans. So we drew
up the basic plans for coordination and planning
with the Royal Canadian Air Force for eventual
organization that turned out to be eventually the
North American Air Defense Command. What were the
plans? It was just integrate the two and have one
Air Defense Command for the entire North American
In case of an attack. Continent. Including, we
even had ultimate plans of turning to Mexico, but
we dropped that. Why? Well, the primary emphasis
was from the north. Bombers coming over the North
Pole, straight across from Russia to us. And it was
less of a threat, where a bomber might come around
from the south, across Mexico. And where would be,
in case of an attack, thinking back to 1949, Where
would be the headquarters? At that time- Where
would you direct the defense from? We began to do
plans right then for the headquarters in
Colorado, in the mountainous area, with the
ultimate plan for something in the mountain, in
the hole. The current NORAD control center in
Colorado Springs, up in the mountains. I was born
in the planning hours right there at Mitchell Air
Force Base. And what did the Canadians think of
having the command center in Colorado and not in
Canada? They understood it and went along with it.
Actually, they couldn't afford it anyhow. One of
the basic decisions I remember, General
Holloway, at that time Colonel Holloway, he and I
were sitting in a little office about eight by
eight feet, and trying to figure out, well, how are
we going to get the Canadians to participate in
this? They can't afford it. And I said, why don't we
think in terms of, we'll pay two-thirds, you pay
one-third. That stuck from then on, and that was
the basis for the original planning of all the pine
tree air defenses, which were the first radar I put
along the southern Canadian border adjacent to
the United States and up the Labrador coast. And
then the due line, which eventually was put across
northern Canada, they paid for one-third and they
paid for two-thirds. And that was basically your
idea? Really? Because I've read that in
documents, the one-third, two-thirds. You have?
Yeah. I read that in histories and I didn't know
that was your basic idea. I thought that they would
have proposed that, because they didn't. Oh,
should have left it to them. They would say, well,
you pay for the whole thing. We'll just
participate.
And matter of fact, looking back now, comparing
what they had and what we had, where we saw and so
forth, I think it was commendable that they agreed
to pay for one third of it. Sure. But they had a lot of
other stipulations that was to their favor much
more than just dollar bills. For instance, to
build radar sites, we had to use Canadian labor and
Canadian organizations, so that gave them
stimulated economy and industry.
They permitted us to man certain stations. They
didn't have the manpower to do it. Some production
of radars and the gear, that kind of gear, went to
radar sites. had to be produced in Canada. So
really saying it, you know, we'd pay one-third,
we'd pay two-thirds, really they got a lot more out
of it than we did, but it was worth it. And that basic
type planning grew eventually what turned out to
be NORAD. And, of course, the deputy commander was
a marshal, a four-star general from the Royal
Canadian Air Force. Are the British included in
this? No, no. It's RCAM, Royal Canadian Air Force.
Tell me about the relations between the Canadian
officers and the American officers. Were there
any times that there was tension? Never. As a
matter of fact, working with the Royal Canadian
Air Force types was just like working with
America. No problem, as a matter of fact. I can't
think of any problem, ever any problem, either at
the planning stage and in Ottawa and Washington
D.C. at the high level stages where we even sat down
in some cases with, you know, political
civilians, high level civilians, State
Department types. Never any. It was, for
instance, compared to the problem I had in Russia
dealing with people, no problem whatsoever. And
subsequent dealings with the Italians and NATO,
never. It's just like planning with Americans. No
problem whatsoever. And subsequently in the
field when I had command of radar divisions and
fighter squadrons, the corporation was
splendid. They're terrific bunch. What about the
quality of the Air Force officers? Canada? Great.
Terrific. On our quality? Oh, yeah. Terrific.
See, they were smaller. Sure. And I don't know if
that makes for them being as good or better, but
they had the cream of the crop of Canada, young men.
And a lot of the equipment they used was our
equipment and vice versa. We had standardization
parts. We're the British, too, though. Oh, yeah.
Oh, getting off on the British, don't get me wrong,
the RAF are absolutely fantastic. No, I meant we
had standardization of the parts with the British
also. Oh, yeah, yeah, but a while ago you asked me if
the RAF was involved. Yeah, I was wondering if the
RAF was involved in any way because, see, there's
still a Dominion. Okay, no. And how about the
planning? What was your role as far as the planning
of the dew line in the earlier warning systems? The
same thing. Same thing, the birth of all of that
North American planning was done right there by
our outfit.
And the basic, and even what turned out to be the
SAGE system, semi-automatic ground environment
system, the computerized control of air defense.
We started the basic concept of that. Now, what was
the basic concept of that? Air defense controlled
by computer. Oh, the SAGE. SAGE, S-A-G-E,
standing for Semi-Automatic Ground Environment
System, where a controller at a normal radar site
looking at the scope and seeing the blips of an
incoming bomber would speak over a ground-to-air
communication radio telephone, RT, and direct a
pilot across the scope, seeing him pit-blip also
where he'd make the intercept. Semi-automatic
ground environment was of a nature where
eventually we didn't even plan to have data link
and actually tied into the flight control system
of the airplane where a man wasn't even in the link.
Everything was done automatically by computer
until the two blips came together on a scope. It's
automatically telling the fire control system
and the all-weather fighter when to fire the
missile. That was the ultimate. In some cases, we
achieved that. In other cases... By what year?
NORAD was the last...
The... When I took over the 25th Air Division in
Tacoma, Washington at McCord Air Force Base in
1957, I believe, I took over command of what we call
the grease pencil manual stage. And it was just
ready to convert into and move into this huge 50 by
50 by 50-foot-high concrete
sage direction center, which occupied, which I
mean, which encompassed primarily the huge
computer, which incidentally was operated with
electron tubes and vacuum tubes. And it took that
big a building, completely air conditioned, just
to maintain that computer. And as a side remark,
can you imagine that big a space for a computer,
which now, today, in 1981, a computer does have
about the size of this desk for each floor.
But in those days, as part of the system, I know I'm
rambling here, but there was not enough computer
programmers in the United States to do this job. We
had to hold up the program for converting to a
semi-automatic ground environment system for
the United States and Canada. We had to hold up the
system for several months to actually give SDC, I
forget even what that stands for out in Santa
Monica, California, a contract for recruiting
and training computer programmers to do this job.
It was that, and of course it was programmed to cost
billions of dollars, and this is what scared a lot
of people, including people in the Air Force. This
cost would cut into, let's say, more higher
priority programs like building up the Strategic
Air Command Bomber Force. And what about SAGE?
When was it activated? The first ground, the first
direction center I believe it was the 26th Area
Division just north of New York City, north of
Mitchell Field, you know, where we did the initial
planning. I forget the name of it, but that was
where the first Direction Center went in, and
I don't remember, Terry, it had to be, when
I came back to
ADC and Con Ed in Northern Pittsburgh, it had to be
Around 52 or 53.
Some were in the early 50s. Because when I went to
25th Air Division in 57, I believe, 56, 57 up at
Tacoma, Washington, as 25th Air Division
commander, they were just completing at Sayles
Direction Center, and I moved into it before I left
there within one year. And it was probably the
second or third one. Now, ultimately, they were
going to have the initial plan called for 20 of
these, all of the United States. So you can see
where the cost went up. Sure. And eventually, we
included, I believe, three in Canada. That
system, by the way, is still operating. It's still
operating. But not in its entirety. They have cut
out a lot of them. Sure, better radar. Well, plus
the fact that the threat of a bomber threat is just
not what it used to be. This is not, the SAGE will not
take care of the missile threat. No. Total
integration of the two air forces, Canadian and
American.
Like I say, we included two direction centers
across the border, one just north of Idaho and one
out towards Vancouver, and those are the main
ones.
of the United States. For instance, the Detroit
area lapped way over into, at least covered the
populated area of southern Canada. The air
defenses of Canada and the United States were
completely integrated, very smoothly done.
Still are? Still are, including the dew line. As
you know, the dew line was practically manned by
civilians. And I was wondering if the dew line is
still functional today. Are we still using that? I
can't answer that question. I doubt it. But I do
know that the huge radars at Thule in Alaska
oriented toward the missile threat. And I did a
subsequent assignment to put in the air defenses
at Thule Greenland. Radar . But that's later on
in my career. This sounds like a very important
assignment. It was at that time. Looking back now,
I didn't realize it. But it was the basis for very
close coordination and cooperation with another
nation. And again, I learned a lot. This is
tantamount to what you call combined planning
between nations. Combined Chiefs of Staff?
Right. Did you do any work for the Combined Chiefs?
Oh, yeah. Well, Canada, RCIA. And a lot of times the
Canadian Army was involved, just like the United
States Army with their Nike missiles. Sure. Did
you think it was a good idea, depending so much on a
foreign nation, for our air defense system? No. It
was so logical And we thought of Canada so much as
our buddies and friends, you know, that this never
entered our mind. The fact that they were a
different nation never really entered our mind.
Not Canada, no, sir. They felt the same way. Well, I
wonder what your feelings were during the Vietnam
War when Canada, for a few years, was harboring
American... dissidents and deserters of the
American military? Did your ideas toward Canada
change? No, sir. As a matter of fact, I didn't blame
this on Canada. It was the individuals themselves
taking advantage of what were legal rights of
people going to other nations and all, and I didn't
blame Canada for this. Okay. Now, let's leave and
talk about the Air Work Comp. What was the Air War
College Institute?
This was back right after the war was over. They
began to establish and think in terms of training
and education then, and orienting themselves to
terrific demobilization and just getting rid of
all the experience they have. And they could
foresee bringing in new people and training and
educating them. And they saw the benefits and
advantages educated people, in particular in the
latest tactics and strategy that we had learned,
you know, in this tremendous worldwide war, World
War II. And they wanted to be able to teach this to
the new incoming young people. And so it was
shortly after the war, in the early, mid and late
40s, that they began to plan for this. It was also a
feather in the cap of a young, ambitious officer to
be chosen to go to these schools, because if you
were chosen to go to the school and you had this on
your record, then you felt that you were in towards
promotion and being, you know, like you go from
squadron officer school to the staff course, then
to the, eventually to the Air War College, and then
even eventually, well, that to the National War
College, which was a joint school in Washington,
D.C. So I was delighted, and as a matter of fact, I
wanted to go. I remember doing some soul
searching, and I think all of us did that. Is this
really the best route to take to spend a year in a
school and miss some command opportunities for,
let's say, some newly formed jet organizations,
fighter organizations? You ask yourself that
question a lot of times, I finally decided, and
talked to a lot of my senior officers, the
commander, that it was best to go to the Air Force.
So I went, gladly. And what about your curriculum?
It was a combination of
what it was, really it covered the waterfront,
politics to economics to psychological, to
actual military problems and principles, the
principles of war, how the growing, and
particularly taken from the lesson of World War
II, how nations depend on one another, combined
planning, joint planning, alliances, and then
right on down to tactics and technique of
operating the advanced equipment the problems of
training. It covered the waterfront, just about.
Well, it provided a field grade type officer,
meaning major, lieutenant, colonel, colonel. It
provided him with a good understanding of command
type problems he'd be confronted with in his later
years, let's say as a general officer. It was
really worthwhile, a terrific idea, and I think
there's still great school. And incidentally,
State Department people go to those schools now.
And also, some foreigners are permitted to
attend. Did you have any British in your classes?
You did? Because at this time, we were exchanging
officers with Britain and Canada. We had some RAF
officers. We had an Army. Some Army. You know, my
Air Force officers went to the Army War College,
too. I didn't want to go to Army War College. The
idea was to go there. the War College of Yonar. The
Navy had the same type of school. But we always felt
best, among my colleagues, to go to Air War
College.
But to go back, we had Army and Navy officers,
ground and pilot types. In our class, we had RAF, we
had Canadians. We had, if I remember correctly, I
think I think we had a Chinese officer.
Later on, I think it was later on, we had Iranian
officers. I don't recall the one, but we had some
other foreign, Italian, we had a couple of Italian
officers. What was the quality of the average
student, your colleagues? Well, above average,
and this of course was criteria in the way they were
picked. If you will, the cream of the crop. through
the school system. What about the professors? Or
the instructors? The professors, some were
military professionals, of course commanded by
Major General Air Force, but we did have civilian
professors in some areas like maybe in economics
or politics. I think one of our professors was a
State Department man, State Department trained
career officer, assigned to the college. We had
a few military instructors, you know,